GIT DEMO MODIFY

AWS STEPS TO CREATE VIRTUAL MACHINE(EC2 INSTANCE-ELASTIC COMPUTE CLOUD)


Log in to the console
Select EC2 in services
Launch Virtual Machine (or) Launch instances

step 1: choose AMI(Amazon Machine Image)
        enable free tier and select ubuntu server 20.04
		
step 2: Choose instance type
        select t2 (free tier)

step 3: Configure instances
		U can choose no of instances as per requirement, we can also provide user data
		which will be executed when we start the insatnce

step 4: Add storage
        We can provide the type of storage device, size of storage and also can add 
        multiple storage in this step

step 5: Add tags:(OPTIONAL)
        Tag consists of a case-sensitive key-value pair. 
		For example, you could define a tag with key = Name and value = Webserver.
        A copy of a tag can be applied to volumes, instances or both.
        Tags will be applied to all instances and volumes. Learn more about tagging your Amazon EC2 resources.		
		
STEP 6: Configure security group
        Security group is a set of firewall rules that control the traffic for your instance. 
		On this page, you can add rules to allow specific traffic to reach your instance. 
		For example, if you want to set up a web server and allow Internet traffic to reach your instance, 
		add rules that allow unrestricted access to the HTTP and HTTPS ports. 
		You can create a new security group or select from an existing one
		We can add multiple security groups. 
		
step 7: Review
        We can review all configuration settings done before launching
		
step 8: Launch
        Here we have to create a key pair or choose the existing key pair which is used for authentication .
		Once finished with key pair configuration the instance is created.
		select the instance click on connect to enter into the instance/VM.
		
		
#USING PUBLIC PRIVATE KEY PAIR TO LOGIN INTO THE CONSOLE AND USE THE INSTANCE 

PUTTY can be used for this approach 
The key which we download in aws is in .pem file format in order to use putty we should convert the file to .ppk
(putty private key) format. We use PuTTYgen tool for this conversion.

STEPS:	

Open PuTTYgen tool	
select 	load an existing private key file
select the .pem file downloaded from aws and click on open
save it as private key (.ppk file is generated)

Now open putty tool
Enter the public ip-address of the instance created in aws
Ellaborate SSH present at the left side and select Auth
Now u can browse and select the .ppk key generated and click on open
This opens ur instance terminal where it asks for username. 
Once we provide the user user-name it will be authenticated and allows to use the instance created in AWS.




	
		
